Molecular docking is an important method in computational drug discovery (drug virtual screening), also known as time-consuming and computationally intensive. Unknown infectious diseases such as Ebola, MERS and SARS that break out each year require rapid large-scale molecular docking. Tianhe-2 is the largest supercomputer available to scientific community, being ranked as fastest computing resource listed in Top500 list [35]. It consists of 32,000 CPUs and 48,000 Intel® Xeon PhiTM MIC co-processors. Despite of fast computation resources available, the problem remains of how to use Tianhe-2 to accelerate the molecular docking process. To this end, the challenge is to design an efficient parallel algorithm based on Tianhe-2 large-scale neo-heterogeneous architecture to complete the docking of all purchasable molecules (approximately 35 million) on earth in a reasonable time (less than one day). To the best of our knowledge, we are the first research team to have proposed a massively parallel molecular docking tool based on CPUs and MICs. Our main contributions follow next. We designed this coordinated parallel framework tool codenamed as mD3DOCKxb (stand for large-scale molecular docking), where CPUs collaborate with MICs for higher hardware utilization. It comprises a novel efficient communication engine for large-scale dynamic task scheduling and load balancing that remarkably reduces communication and IO latency. In addition, we deploy mD3DOCKxb on Tianhe-2 supercomputer, which achieves a 12x–18x speedup on one single MIC or CPU depending on the number of Lamarckian genetic algorithm iterations. Moreover, mD3DOCKxb offers high scalability, and its parallel efficiency is as high as 84.91% in execution allocated with 192,000 CPU cores and 1,368,000 MIC cores. Furthermore, mD3DOCKxb completes the docking of all purchasable molecules (approximately 35 million) on earth with the Ebola (VP35) virus within 20 hours. The best three candidates are listed with their root-mean-square deviation, binding energy, and interaction with VP35. This can be vital for effective hypothesis generation in combatting unknown viral infections.
